Literary Terms
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_3nmvjn
1. tactile imagery: descriptive language that appeals to the sense of touch
2. auditory imagery: descriptive language that appeals to the sense of sound
3. gustatory imagery: descriptive language that appeals to the sense of taste
4. olfactory imagery: descriptive language that appeals to the sense of smell
5. visual imagery: descriptive language that appeals to the sense of sight
6. metaphor: figure of speech that compares two things without using like or as
7. simile: a comparison of two unlike things using like or as
8. personification: the giving of human qualities to an animal, object, or idea
9. metonymy: a figure of speech in which a representative term is used for an
associated idea
10. synecdoche: a figure of speech in which a part is made to represent the whole
or vice versa
11. dialogue: conversation between two or more people
12. monologue: a speech by one actor; a long talk by one person
13. syntax: the manner in which words are arranged into sentences
14. motif: an object or idea that repeats itself throughout a literary work
15. symbol: an object that is used to represent something else, typically an idea,
concept or value
16. ambiguity: uncertainty or inexactness of meaning in language
17. paradox: a statement that seems contradictory or absurd, but is actually valid
or true
18. dramatic irony: the contrast between what a character expects and what the
audience knows is true
19. situational irony: a type of irony in which events turn out the opposite of what
was expected
20. verbal irony: irony in which a person says or writes one thing and means
another
21. hyperbole: exaggerated statements or claims not meant to be taken literally
22. diction: the choice and use of words and phrases in speech or writing
23. detail: a particular fact or piece of information about something or someone
24. narrator: a speaker or character who tells a story
1 / 2
Literary Terms
Study online at https://quizlet.com/_3nmvjn
25. setting: the time and place in which the story takes place
26. antithesis: opposition, or contrast, of ideas or words in a parallel construction
27. anaphora: the repetition of a word or phrase at the beginning of successive
clauses
28. polysyndeton: the use, for rhetorical effect, of more conjunctions than is
necessary or natural
29. asyndeton: omission of conjunctions between coordinate phrases, clauses, or
words
30. onomatopoeia: the use of words that imitate sounds
31. allusion: a reference to something literary, mythological, or historical that the
author assumes the reader will recognize
32. structure: the arrangement or framework of a sentence, paragraph, or entire
work
33. direct characterization: the process by which the personality of a fictitious
character is revealed by the use of descriptive adjectives, phrases, or epithets.
34. indirect characterization: the process by which the personality of a fictitious
character is revealed through the character's speech, actions, appearance, etc.
35. foreshadowing: the use of clues to hint at events that will occur later in the plot
36. alliteration: the occurrence of the same consonant sound at the beginning of
adjacent or closely connected words.
37. assonance: repetition of a vowel sound within two or more words in close
proximity
38. protagonist: the main character in a literary work
39. antagonist: a character or force in conflict with the main character
40. vignette: a short, descriptive literary sketch
2 / 2